Having a spiritually strong family
prepares us also for other changes in life.
Perhaps you are in your teens
and you’re starting to notice
those of the opposite sex.
Such emotions are natural
and are part of growing up.
But if you’re not old enough to get married,
what do you need to keep in mind?
This young sister made wise decisions
with the loving help of her parents.
Uhh, yours?
Yeah.
Thanks.
You’re Lily, right?
Yeah.
And you’re Sean.
I’ve seen you around.
You play good basketball.
Thanks.
So do you.
So you want to hang out sometime?
Sure.
My name is Lily,
and I sorta had this problem.
There’s a boy named Sean
that recently moved to our school.
I know I’m not supposed to like anyone
who is not a Witness.
The trouble was,
he is  a Witness.
Sean and his family
moved into our congregation.
And the more I saw of him,
the more I liked him.
If only I knew where to find God!
Like I said, “I had a problem.”
Every day I see couples my age at school.
To me, they look happy.
Honestly, I wanted that happiness too.
My parents noticed my problem too
and talked about it that night.
And pretty soon
I didn’t feel alone anymore.
The next day,
my mom invited me
to go with her to run an errand.
Afterward, we went to a little café.
She asked me how things were going.
At first, I didn’t want to tell her,
but she made me feel really comfortable.
So I told her my feelings for Sean,
expecting her to think bad of me.
But she didn’t.
Everything you’re feeling is natural, Lily.
I remember having these same feelings
when I was your age too.
Really?
It’s true.
That’s just how Jehovah created us, Honey.
And because he created us, he knows
the best way for us to be happy.
And that’s all he wants for us.
And that’s all Daddy and I want for you too.
She didn’t scold me;
she didn’t make me feel embarrassed.
And most importantly,
she didn’t seem to be in a rush.
My mom wasn’t the only one helping me.
My dad was preparing
to help me with my problem too.
That evening, we had family worship.
And once again,
they just let me talk.
They told me I didn’t have to hold back,
so I didn’t.
I just don’t know what to do.
Lily, thank you for telling us how you feel.
Let me ask you something:
Why do you think Jehovah
created us with these
natural feelings toward the opposite sex?
So that one day a man and woman could marry.
That’s right!
In fact, a good marriage
is like two skaters on the ice.
A beautiful performance
can seem effortless, but is it really?
No.
No one would even attempt
that without practice,
a capable partner,
or the right kind of guidance.
Right?
Yeah.
Well, it’s the same with a good marriage,
Sweetie.
It doesn’t just happen.
It too depends on a good partner,
coordinated effort, but most importantly,
wise counsel from Jehovah.
In fact,
could you please turn with me
to Psalm 32:8
and read that for us.
Sure.
It says:
“I will give you insight and instruct you
in the way you should go.
I will give you advice with my eye upon you.”
Lily, Jehovah loves us very much.
And if we listen to him,
we’ll make good decisions in our life
with absolutely no regrets.
We talked some more,
and then I got some homework.
My dad gave me some articles
he printed out for me to read,
so I did.
And as I read the words
and started meditating on them,
I realized something.
By holding off dating a little longer,
I wasn’t missing out.
Rather, I was preparing myself.
I could use the time now to focus
on something much more important
—my relationship with Jehovah.
I could also gain Christian qualities
and experience that will help me later
if I ever do get married.